Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A. A programming language is a special language programmers use to develop software programs, scripts, or other
   sets of instructions for computers to execute.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A. JDK contains JRE and development tools such as compilers & debuggers.
   JRE- to run java application the required environment is JRE.

What is IDE?
A. IDE means Integrated Development Environment to develop applications. Eclipse, IntelliJ, Netbeans are
   some of common IDE.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A. Eclipse, IntelliJ, Netbeans, JDeveloper etc.

Explain the entire java life cycle.
A. the java compiler converts the source code into bytecodes and the JVM loads and verify those bytecodes and
   executes the codes and output is sent to the operating system.

what is class?
A. Class is a blue print of an object, everything we write inside a class.

What is object?
A. An object is an instance of a class.

What is the entry point of an application?
A. the main method is the entry point of an application.

Why main is static?
A. main method is static because it lets us invoke to JVM without creating an instance of the class, and since the
   main method is the entry point of an application so we make main method static.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
A. java.lang.object is a superclass of all classes. The object class is the superclass for every class as Java is
   completely object oriented.

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
A. PATH is the environment variable used by the operating system to locate the JDK binarieslike 'java' or 'javac'
   command is used to run a java program or load the source code, and CLASSPATH is an environment variable used by the
   java compiler an JVM to locate and load the required class file.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
A. Interface is completely abstract, we can only declare methods there, we can't implement those. but in Abstract class
   we can have unimplemented and implemented method.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
A. no we can't make object from an interface and abstract class. we can instantiate interface or abstract class with
   a concrete class that means we can create object from a concrete class.

what is Access Specifier?
A. Access Specifier modifies whether other classes can use a particular field or invoke a particular method from
   another class. normally there are 3 types of access specifier- public, private & protected. but classes and interfaces
   can only have public and default access specifier.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
A. OOP concepts are the main ideas behind the java object oriented programming. features-
   1) Abstraction- its implementation hiding. an abstract class can't be instantiated, it must
   have a concrete subclass which will implement the abstract methods of that abstract class.
   2) Encapsulation- its data hiding. its about keeping field within a class private, then providing access to them via public methods.
   its a protective barrier that keeps tha data and code safe within the class itself.
   3) Inheritance- it lets us create new classes that shares some of the attributes of existing classes.
   4) Polymorphism- if one task is performed by different ways, it is known as polymorphism. we can use method overloading and
   method overriding to achieve polymorphism.
   Method Overloading- its a feature that allows a class to have more than one method having the same name but different parameter
   Method Overriding- its a feature that allows a subclass or child class to have a specific implementation
   of a method that is already provided by one of its superclasses or parent class.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A. Packages are used in java to prevent naming conflicts, to control access, to make searching/locating and usage of classes,interfaces,
   enumerations and annotations easier. java.lang package is imported by default.

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
A. API(Application Programming Interface) is a software intermediary that allows two applications to talk to each other.
   list of API- java.lang, java.io, java.util, java.sql etc.

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
A. no, because it creates confusion and complexity. to avoid ambiguity error java does not support multiple inheritance through class.
   but we can do it through interface.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
A. its a feature that allows a class to have more than one method having the same name but different parameter.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
A. Exceptions happen in runtime and break the normal flow of program. that means when an exception occurs at any point the program won't
   be run from that point even if the rest of the codes are correct. Exception is handled by five keywords such as try, catch, throw,
   throws and finally.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
A. static method lets us access to the method without creating an object of the class. static variable belongs to class and non static
   variable belongs to an object. we can access static variable from anywhere.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
A. final is a keyword that is used in variable to make it constant that means once the variable is initialized, we can't change the
   value anymore. and final methods can't be overrided. a final class can't be subclassed.

What is final, finally and finalize?
A. finally is a java reserved keyword that is used to execute something such as we can use final in try catch block. so when the try block
   throws an exception and catch block is unable to handle that exception then finally block will definitely execute. finalize is used to
   destroy object. java is also a garbage collector that collects object no longer needed by program. but if we don't need the object we
   can destroy it by using the keyword finalize.

What is a constructor ?
A. Constructor is used to instantiate an object by using new operator. it is an instance method with the same name as the class name.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
A. Yes.

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
A. Default constructor.

What is "this" keyword in java ?
A. this keyword refers to the class itself. to see all the methods and variables in a class we can use 'this' keyword instead of
   class name. this lets us access to all the methods and variables in a class we are.

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
A. Super keyword lets us invoke/initialize the superclass resources in a subclass such as constructors, methods and variables.

What is JVM stand for ?
A. Java Virtual Machine.

Is JVM platform independent?
A. Yes.

What version of java are you using?
A. java version "10.0.2" 2018-07-17
   Java(TM) SE Runtime Environment 18.3 (build 10.0.2+13)
   Java HotSpot(TM) 64-Bit Server VM 18.3 (build 10.0.2+13, mixed mode)

What is JAR stand for?
A. Java Archive.

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
A. JDK is Java Development Kit which is used to provide the environment to develop Java Application.
   JVM is Java Virtual Machine which is responsible to run our java program line by line. it is a very important part of both JDK
   and JRE because it is contained or inbuilt in both.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
A. JVM is Java Virtual Machine which is responsible to run our java program line by line. it is a very important part of both JDK
   and JRE because it is contained or inbuilt in both.
   JRE is Java Runtime Environment which provides the the required environment to run a java application.

What is compile time and run time?
A. when java compile the .java file to .class file, that stage is called compile time.
   java loader loads the .class file in JVM and JVM executes the application. this execution time is known as run time.

What is heap?
A. heap is a part of RAM. it contains the object during the run time.

How java manage it's memory?
A. java manages its memory with its built in garbage collection. it lets us create new objects without worrying explicitly about memory
   allocation and deallocation.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
A. String is immutable, if we try to alter their values, another object gets created, whereas
   StringBuffer and StringBuilder are mutable so they can change their values. StringBuffer methods are
   synchronized while StringBuilder methods are non-synchronized, it means that for thread-safe operations
   we must choose StringBuffer class instead of StringBuilder.

What is Singleton class?
A. The singleton class is used to control object creation by keeping private constructor. Singleton
   pattern helps us to keep only one instance of a class at any time. We can make constructor as private.
   So that user can not create an object from outside of the class.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
A. Serialization is a process of converting an object into a byte stream(sequence of bytes). Deserialization is the reverse process where
   the byte stream is used to recreate the actual object in memory. This mechanism is used to persist the object.

when to use transient variable in java?
A. when a variable is marked as transient, its object won't be serialized during serialization. we use the transient keyword to indicate
   to the Java virtual machine that the indicated variable is not part of the persistent state of the object.

Difference between while and do..while loop?
A. in while loop it will check the condition first and if the condition is true then it will run. but in do while loop it will do one
   task first and then will check the condition.

What is Enum?
A. Enum is a constant data type such as week, months, year. So when we have pre defined data then we can use enam. We can
   declare enam inside the class or outside the class.

What is Iterator?
A. Iterators are used in Collection framework in Java to retrieve elements one by one.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
A. Integer.

Why is String Immutable in Java?
A. Security: parameters are typically represented as String in network connections, database connection urls,
   usernames/passwords etc. If it were mutable, these parameters could be easily changed.
   Synchronization and concurrency: making String immutable automatically makes them thread safe thereby
   solving the synchronization issues.
   Caching: when compiler optimizes our String objects, it sees that if two objects have same value
   (a="test", and b="test") and thus we need only one string object (for both a and b, these two will
   point to the same object).
   Class loading: String is used as arguments for class loading. If mutable, it could result in wrong class
   being loaded (because mutable objects change their state).
What is constructor chaining in Java?
A. Constructor chaining is the process of calling one constructor from another constructor with respect to current object.
   Constructor chaining can be done in two ways:
   Within same class: It can be done using this() keyword for constructors in same class
   From base class: by using super() keyword to call constructor from the base class.
   Constructor chaining occurs through inheritance.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
A. The serial collector uses a single thread to perform all garbage collection work, which is more efficient
   because of no communication overhead between threads. It is best suited to single processor machines.
   Parallel collctor performs minor collections in parallel, which can significantly reduce garbage collection.
   It is intended for applications with medium-size to large sized data sets that are run on multiprocessor and multi
   threaded hardware.

What is JIT stands for?
A. Just In Time.

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
A. Java has an automatic garbage collection system. it collects the object as garbage when that object loses its reference
   variable that means that object is no longer needed by the application.
   Java applications are only allowed to use a limited amount of memory. This limit is specified during application startup.
   To make things more complex, Java memory is separated into two different regions. These regions are called Heap space and
   Permgen. the unused objects remain in Java heap space indefinitely.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
A. No it is not guaranteed process. Reason- Being an automatic process, programmers need not initiate the garbage collection
   process explicitly in the code. System.gc() and Runtime.gc() are hooks to request the JVM to initiate the garbage
   collection process.

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
A. Heap and Stack are part of JVM but they are used for different purposes. Differences are as follows:
   1. Size: Heap space in Java is much bigger than the Stack memory.
   2. Resizing: JVM allows to resize both heap and stack, but need to use different JVM flags for that.
   3. Usage: Heap memory is used to store objects, no mater where u created that object. Stack memory is used to
     store primitive variables and reference variables.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
A. Reflection is an API which is used to examine or modify the behavior of methods, classes, interfaces at runtime.
   The required classes for reflection are provided under java.lang.reflect package.
   Reflection gives us information about the class to which an object belongs and also the methods of that class which can
   be executed by using the object.
   Through reflection we can invoke methods at runtime irrespective of the access specifier used with them.
   Reflection can be used to get information about –
   Class The getClass() method is used to get the name of the class to which an object belongs.
   Constructors The getConstructors() method is used to get the public constructors of the class to which an object belongs.
   Methods The getMethods() method is used to get the public methods of the class to which an objects belongs.

what is multithreading in java?
A. Multithreading in java is a process of executing multiple threads simultaneously. A thread is a lightweight sub-process,
   the smallest unit of processing. Multiprocessing and multithreading, both are used to achieve multitasking.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
A. Synchronized keyword in Java is used to provide mutually exclusive access to a shared resource with multiple threads in
   Java. Synchronization in Java guarantees that no two threads can execute a synchronized method which requires the same
   lock simultaneously or concurrently.

What is Framework?
A. A framework, or software framework, is a platform for developing software applications. It provides a foundation on which
   software developers can build programs for a specific platform. For example, a framework may include predefined classes
   and functions that can be used to process input, manage hardware devices, and interact with system software.

What are the testing Framework available in java?
A. JUnit, TestNG, Cucumber, Mockito, DBUnit etc.

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
A. TestNG is similar to JUnit. Few more functionalities are added to it such as Dependency Test, Group Test that makes
   TestNG more powerful than JUnit.

What are the dependencies for this project?
A. mongo-java-driver.jar, mysql-connector-java.jar, testng.jar

what is dependency injection in java?
A. Dependency injection is a concept valid for any programming language. The general concept behind dependency injection is
   called Inversion of Control. A Java class has a dependency on another class, if it uses an instance of this class.

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
A. Static Binding: The binding which can be resolved at compile time by compiler is known as static or early binding. Binding
   of all the static, private and final methods is done at compile-time.
   Dynamic Binding: In Dynamic binding compiler doesn’t decide the method to be called. Overriding is a perfect example of
   dynamic binding. In overriding both parent and child classes have same method.









